Hello and welcome back to the course on Parbat we've credo viz. our business intelligence and dashboard.
And today we're going to analyze it and to start off with.
Let's imagine that we are the CEO of the bank.
So the person in charge of the whole of the operations of the bank and what would we look for as the
CEO.
Well probably the CEO would be interested in finding some observations or some anomalies that would
help him or some trends even that would help him serve the customers of the bank better.
Right.
So let's have a look and see what we can find right away.
Well first of all we can see that the gender split is about 55 percent male to 46 percent female so
it's about nearly half half but a little bit more on the male side.
Then we've got an interesting thing here we've got the highest bin's for our population or for our age
groups is 30 to 35 years old or actually 30 to 35 and 35 to 40 years old just 30 to 40 years old that's
where predominantly all of our population on the bank is sitting.
And it's in total that is 40 percent of our population is there and that is interesting.
From my experiences a bit.
So it is kind of like normal but it's one there's a few options that could happen.
Like for instance you could have 25 to 35 so you'd have these two.
Right.
If you had a younger demographic you'd rarely have predominantly people in these age groups or predominately
in their more mature age groups you would likely have.
It usually is kind of like a normal distribution but can be a bit more skewed this way.
So a bit more skew to the right and then the top part would be more to the left and that would be 25
to 35.
Or it could be skewed the other way could be like 35 to 45 or even 40 and 40 to 50.
But in our case so it is a bit over a younger age group and it like the people just imagine these people
these are people that are quite mature in their careers so they've already been in the workforce for
if it's 30 to 40 years old so they've been in the workforce for at least 10 years some up to 20 years.
And what are they thinking.
So this is what the CEO would be thinking he would be thinking what do these people want.
So they're starting to save up for you know people in this age group they're starting to like us.
They're just at the stage where they've just purchased their home or they are about to purchase their
home or move into a bigger home because people probably in this age group are still renting.
So what do these people need.
Well maybe they need loans to purchase homes or maybe they need insurance to insure their homes.
Some of these people have already probably started families and now they're looking to have children
and that means they're going to be spending money on school and so on.
So that's what the CEO would be thinking as opposed to people in these age groups who are already starting
to transition into retirement who are thinking about how to make create a secure future for themselves
and their less.
They've got other things on their mind.
And people in these age groups they've got things like student loans and rent and maybe getting a loan
for a car.
Those type of things.
Right.
So as a CEO would probably click on these two bars hold down control.
And what do we see here.
We see that the age the gender group has changed right so previously it was mostly male.
Now it's actually closer to 50 50 so.
But the fact of the matter is that it actually changed so that what does that tell us that tells us
that this skew in mostly male to female is actually happening elsewhere.
And if the change here that means that this age group we should you know should create offers that are
tailored maybe some offers or tell to male customers and some offers tell to female customers.
Whereas now if we explore that other age groups right.
So if we call down control here you'll see an older demographic.
We've got predominantly male customers and that's also interesting because that's not a given right.
So in generally in the population of the UK you would expect that it's about a 50 50 split and that
means there's some sort of preference some sort of bias and who would be interested in why are our customers
predominately male are we not tapping in enough to the whole market of the country maybe our products
are not compelling enough for female customers to be interested in them and so that would be like a
red flag.
On one hand yes it might be a good thing maybe they are and they've come up with a product that is very
appealing to men but at the same time they need to there's this other part of this market that they're
not leveraging and that maybe they need to change something about their operation so it could be both
a strength and a weakness and he would need to explore that further to find out.
As you can see as we go further even like in the 60s in this demographic it's a huge difference right.
So why would that be.
What else would he be interested in.
So he would probably look at other things like blue collar.
Well fair enough right so mostly male in the blue choral profession.
White collar interesting and the demographics so like you just click around and have a look.
So I'll leave that to use to explore these remaining shares as a CEO and see what you can find.
And we're going to move on to exploring the map and exploring the regional branches of the bank.
And all imagine now that we are the directors of the bank.
Each of the regions.
And so let's start with with England.
Let's say we are the director of the Bank of England.
What can we see here.
So an interesting way is to always kind of compare what we see in the overall region.
So you can see 30 to 40.
So that's an angle.
So in the overall region you can see 30 to 40 54 to 46 and here you can see is white color right away
is huge right.
So overall in the whole of the UK White Collar is about 50 percent or 40 48 percent if you click on
England white collar becomes 70 percent and probably that has something to do with the fact that you
know London is the main economical hub of Europe and there's a lot of white collar jobs there and probably
some like that.
Right.
So maybe that's not a surprise to the director.
Maybe it is.
Maybe they would be interested in something.
What else could they see here.
Well in the overall bank in the overall population of the bank you can see that the distribution of
ballots just drops off gradually.
Here they can see you can see that there's like a dip in the balances between $10000 to $20000.
So in this bucket and to $20000 in England there is a bit of a dip.
Right.
So it's either a dip here or it's a spike here.
And so that's something they would investigate.
They would try to understand is this a statistically significant result or is this maybe just a random
kind of like error or that you know it's just a fluctuation in their balances and that's totally normal
so it's it's not a representative finding.
But if it isn't represented in fighting then you start thinking how can we fix this.
Maybe people with these balances are for some reason going to other banks maybe there's a competitor
that is stealing their customers who are in that specific between 10 and $20000 maybe a competitor just
recently had an offer saying that if you deposit $15000 into your first account we will give you you
know interest free loan for five years or something like that and they would explore that so that might
be a signal.
What about this 15 percent so why is it higher than the 14 percent is that just in is it how it's supposed
to be that the normal drop off.
What does it look like.
Because 15 percent of the next one is 12 and then 10.
So it looks a bit high so maybe they're doing something right for these people who have these balances
so why are they coming to this bank.
And you know continue doing that that thing that they're doing right and just understand what it is.
So then he would also look at the other things.
Let's have a look at some other places so Wales let's imagine where the director for Wales What is interesting
here.
Probably the most interesting thing here is we have also just keep in mind how many people we have.
So 520 people and that's why you kind of see a bit of a moral very randomness a bit more of noise in
here because it's not as smooth.
And that's that's that is a signal that the fact that there's a few people here fewer That is probably
just some random fluctuations simply because this is not a statistically significant sample for that
number of bins that we have here.
So what he would look at is probably the gender split and you would see that.
So we probably were mostly servicing female not mostly but some more our portion of female customers
is more than in the rest of the bank and that's very interesting to see.
But then he'd look probably at the drop off for the older demographics so people from 50 years old plus
in the bank is about 8 percent so that is why we put it in percentages right because we can now just
compare the bank the whole bank to different regions so we know that overall in the bank is 8 percent
5 percent 2 percent.
And when we go to Wales we can see that there's a massive drop off.
They are definitely missing out on this demographic and you know even though it's 8 percent is only
like a few percentages you know total 15 percent.
But these are the people that if you click these are the people that actually normally have higher balances
because they've they've retired they've worked for a longer life than these other people and therefore
they have the higher balances.
And so this part of the bank is missing out on the older demographics and that's something that they
would probably need to look into.
And that is obvious from the data.
All right.
So then we're moving on to Northern Ireland Northern Ireland right away.
What pops to mind the demographic split.
So we've got to though the gender split we've got 26 percent only male and 74 percent female.
Right.
So a very interesting observation.
It's you know there's a couple of things that the director would do from here and that's why they're
like at the top.
They can instruct or talk to their managers that are under them to investigate this and maybe one manager
would go and try to find out why they don't have such a good share of what they have with they don't
have a good share of the male part of the market.
Maybe another manager would go and investigate what how they can leverage this advantage that they have.
Right.
So maybe this is a good thing maybe they somehow some of their products are attractive to female customers
and now they need to keep building that momentum and leveraging it and releasing more products so you
know they would be able to find out more information there.
And looks like it's a younger demographic as well so it's so it's from about 25 to 35 years old so maybe.
And given that it's mostly female customers maybe they would start creating products around insurance
for when you're buying a home because these people probably that are looking to start families about
products such as things for children and loans for buying homes and maybe getting cars and so on like
big cars for families and you know like different products that would be tailored to this demographic.
And finally Scotland.
So here we can see that a different picture.
The distribution is very different.
We've got the older demographic We've got 45 to 55 mostly so that comprises about 50 percent of this
part of this region and mostly male and blue color so you can tell right away.
This is completely different playing field right.
If if in Ireland we would be selling insurance's around buying a home and home loans and maybe cars
for families and like things that would be or different loans that would be relevant to people who are
starting a family here will be selling other things would be selling insurance.
We might be selling the same insurance but positioning in different view and might be saying that.
So we've got this insurance product that will help you and not start a family but look after your family.
Right so we're assuming these people already have a family that they have a home that they want to protect
the people they love and so on.
So you would market it even even if you don't create a different product you'd market your existing
product differently to these people and a lot of the time.
It sounds like a bad thing right.
You might think of it as and as you know you take advantage of people you're you're selling to them
you're you know you're very you're being you know you're leveraging their demographic situation and
they know who they are to sell to them and make more money.
Well it's actually if you think about it's a good thing that if you've got a good product right if it's
a good insurance product and you want to convey it to people and explain what it is will it is better
if you talk their language right.
If a person is is in a life situation where they are thinking about starting a family then why would
you try to sell them an insurance product that is more tailored to the older demographic.
Right.
So it's it's actually.
As long as you have a good product and you have good intentions then it is in the customer's interest
as well for you to tailor that product or the way you present their product to their situation so it's
better for it so it's easier for them to understand what benefits they will get out of it.
So this is not this whole exercise is not just for the bank to make more money.
Yes it is a bank.
Yes they are in it for to make money but we live in a very competitive world and unless they have a
very good product they're going to go out of business so at the end of the day it's it is a win win
situation where all this should be a win win situation where both the bank gets an opportunity to make
money and further invest into their research and development and their products and their services and
at the same time the people that are being marketed to they get the right products that are tailored
to them that give them exactly what they need at their stage of life.
So there we go.
That's how the director of Scotland would analyze probably would analyze this part of the dashboard.
So hopefully that gives a good overview of what we've created here.
As you can see it's quite a powerful visualization quite a powerful dashboard and a lot of executives
in a bank in this particular bank could get some valuable insights out of here and therefore come up
with certain actions to either fix problem areas or leverage those strengths that they have.
I hope in today's Tauriel and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.